.TH KANBAN 1 "March 2026" "kanban 0.1.10" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kanban \- local orchestration board for coding agents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kanban
.RI [ --port " " number|auto ]
.RI [ --no-open ]
.RI [ command ]
.br
.B kanban task
.RI " " list|create|update|link|unlink|start
.RI " " [ options ]
.br
.B kanban hooks
.RI " " ingest|notify|gemini-hook|codex-wrapper
.RI " " [ options ]
.br
.B kanban mcp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kanban
starts the local Kanban runtime server and serves the web UI.

When launched inside a git repository, it opens that repository's indexed workspace.
When launched outside git, it starts with no active workspace or falls back to the first indexed project.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --port <number|auto>
Bind to a specific local port or pick the first available port starting at 3484.
.TP
.B --no-open
Do not open the browser automatically.
.TP
.B --help, -h
Show help text and exit.
.TP
.B --version, -v
Show version and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B task|tasks
Manage Kanban board tasks from the CLI.

Subcommands:
.br
.B list
.RI [ --project-path " " path ]
.RI [ --column " " backlog|in_progress|review ]
.br
.B create
.B --prompt
.RI " " text
.RI [ --project-path " " path ]
.RI [ --base-ref " " branch ]
.RI [ --start-in-plan-mode " " true|false ]
.RI [ --auto-review-enabled " " true|false ]
.RI [ --auto-review-mode " " commit|pr|move_to_trash ]
.br
.B update
.B --task-id
.RI " " id
.RI [ --prompt " " text ]
.RI [ --project-path " " path ]
.RI [ --base-ref " " branch ]
.RI [ --start-in-plan-mode " " true|false ]
.RI [ --auto-review-enabled " " true|false ]
.RI [ --auto-review-mode " " commit|pr|move_to_trash ]
.br
.B link
.B --task-id
.RI " " id
.B --linked-task-id
.RI " " id
.RI [ --project-path " " path ]
.br
.B unlink
.B --dependency-id
.RI " " id
.RI [ --project-path " " path ]
.br
.B start
.B --task-id
.RI " " id
.RI [ --project-path " " path ]

All task commands return JSON.

Use kebab-case flags only.

.TP
.B hooks
Runtime hook helpers used by agent adapters.

Subcommands:
.br
.B ingest
.RI [ payload ]
.B --event
.RI " " to_review|to_in_progress|activity
.RI [ --source " " source ]
.RI [ --activity-text " " text ]
.RI [ --tool-name " " name ]
.RI [ --final-message " " text ]
.RI [ --hook-event-name " " name ]
.RI [ --notification-type " " type ]
.RI [ --metadata-base64 " " base64 ]
.br
.B notify
same options as
.BR ingest ,
but best-effort.
.br
.B gemini-hook
.br
.B codex-wrapper
.B --real-binary
.RI " " path
.RI [ agentArgs... ]

.TP
.B mcp
Deprecated compatibility command. Prints a deprecation warning and exits.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Start server on the default port:
.B kanban
.TP
Start server without auto-opening a browser:
.B kanban --no-open
.TP
Start server on a custom port:
.B kanban --port 9000
.TP
List tasks for the current workspace:
.B kanban task list
.TP
Create and start a task manually:
.B kanban task create --prompt "Implement API pagination"
.TP
Ingest a hook event:
.B kanban hooks ingest --event to_review
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR npm (1)
